
    <h2>
      WHEN PAPA SWORE IN HINDUSTANI
    </h2>
    <p>
      "Sylvia!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, papa."
    </p>
    <p>
      "That infernal dog of yours——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, papa!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, that infernal dog of yours has been at my carnations again!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Colonel Reynolds, V.C., glared sternly across the table at Miss Sylvia
      Reynolds, and Miss Sylvia Reynolds looked in a deprecatory manner back at
      Colonel Reynolds, V.C.; while the dog in question—a foppish pug—happening
      to meet the colonel's eye in transit, crawled unostentatiously under the
      sideboard, and began to wrestle with a bad conscience.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, naughty Tommy!" said Miss Reynolds mildly, in the direction of the
      sideboard.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, my dear," assented the colonel; "and if you could convey to him the
      information that if he does it once more—yes, just once more!—I
      shall shoot him on the spot you would be doing him a kindness." And the
      colonel bit a large crescent out of his toast, with all the energy and
      conviction of a man who has thoroughly made up his mind. "At six o'clock
      this morning," continued he, in a voice of gentle melancholy, "I happened
      to look out of my bedroom window, and saw him. He had then destroyed two
      of my best plants, and was commencing on a third, with every appearance of
      self-satisfaction. I threw two large brushes and a boot at him."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, papa! They didn't hit him?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "No, my dear, they did not. The brushes missed him by several yards, and
      the boot smashed a fourth carnation. However, I was so fortunate as to
      attract his attention, and he left off."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I can't think what makes him do it. I suppose it's bones. He's got bones
      buried all over the garden."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, if he does it again, you'll find that there will be a few more
      bones buried in the garden!" said the colonel grimly; and he subsided into
      his paper.
    </p>
    <p>
      Sylvia loved the dog partly for its own sake, but principally for that of
      the giver, one Reginald Dallas, whom it had struck at an early period of
      their acquaintance that he and Miss Sylvia Reynolds were made for one
      another. On communicating this discovery to Sylvia herself he had found
      that her views upon the subject were identical with his own; and all would
      have gone well had it not been for a melancholy accident.
    </p>
    <p>
      One day while out shooting with the colonel, with whom he was doing his
      best to ingratiate himself, with a view to obtaining his consent to the
      match, he had allowed his sporting instincts to carry him away to such a
      degree that, in sporting parlance, he wiped his eye badly. Now, the
      colonel prided himself with justice on his powers as a shot; but on this
      particular day he had a touch of liver, which resulted in his shooting
      over the birds, and under the birds, and on each side of the birds, but
      very rarely at the birds. Dallas being in especially good form, it was
      found, when the bag came to be counted, that, while he had shot seventy
      brace, the colonel had only managed to secure five and a half!
    </p>
    <p>
      His bad marksmanship destroyed the last remnant of his temper. He swore
      for half an hour in Hindustani, and for another half-hour in English.
      After that he felt better. And when, at the end of dinner, Sylvia came to
      him with the absurd request that she might marry Mr. Reginald Dallas he
      did not have a fit, but merely signified in fairly moderate terms his
      entire and absolute refusal to think of such a thing.
    </p>
    <p>
      This had happened a month before, and the pug, which had changed hands in
      the earlier days of the friendship, still remained, at the imminent risk
      of its life, to soothe Sylvia and madden her father.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was generally felt that the way to find favour in the eyes of Sylvia—which
      were a charming blue, and well worth finding favour in—was to show
      an intelligent and affectionate interest in her dog. This was so up to a
      certain point; but no farther, for the mournful recollection of Mr. Dallas
      prevented her from meeting their advances in quite the spirit they could
      have wished.
    </p>
    <p>
      However, they persevered, and scarcely a week went by in which Thomas was
      not rescued from an artfully arranged horrible fate by somebody.
    </p>
    <p>
      But all their energy was in reality wasted, for Sylvia remembered her
      faithful Reggie, who corresponded vigorously every day, and refused to be
      put off with worthless imitations. The lovesick swains, however, could not
      be expected to know of this, and the rescuing of Tommy proceeded briskly,
      now one, now another, playing the rtle of hero.
    </p>
    <p>
      The very day after the conversation above recorded had taken place a
      terrible tragedy occurred.
    </p>
    <p>
      The colonel, returning from a poor day's shooting, observed through the
      mist that was beginning to rise a small form busily engaged in excavating
      in the precious carnation-bed. Slipping in a cartridge, he fired; and the
      skill which had deserted him during the day came back to him. There was a
      yelp; then silence. And Sylvia, rushing out from the house, found the
      luckless Thomas breathing his last on a heap of uprooted carnations.
    </p>
    <p>
      The news was not long in spreading. The cook told the postman, and the
      postman thoughtfully handed it on to the servants at the rest of the
      houses on his round. By noon it was public property; and in the afternoon,
      at various times from two to five, nineteen young men were struck, quite
      independently of one another, with a brilliant idea.
    </p>
    <p>
      The results of this idea were apparent on the following day.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Is this all?" asked the colonel of the servant, as she brought in a
      couple of letters at breakfast-time.
    </p>
    <p>
      "There's a hamper for Miss Sylvia, sir."
    </p>
    <p>
      "A hamper, is there? Well, bring it in."
    </p>
    <p>
      "If you please, sir, there's several of them."
    </p>
    <p>
      "What? Several? How many are there?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Nineteen, sir," said Mary, restraining with some difficulty an
      inclination to giggle.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Eh? What? Nineteen? Nonsense! Where are they?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "We've put them in the coachhouse for the present, sir. And if you please,
      sir, cook says she thinks there's something alive in them."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Something alive?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, sir. And John says he thinks it's dogs, sir!"
    </p>
    <p>
      The colonel uttered a sound that was almost a bark, and, followed by
      Sylvia, rushed to the coachhouse. There, sure enough, as far as the eye
      could reach, were the hampers; and, as they looked, a sound proceeded from
      one of them that was unmistakably the plaintive note of a dog that has
      been shut up, and is getting tired of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      Instantly the other eighteen hampers joined in, until the whole coachhouse
      rang with the noise.
    </p>
    <p>
      The colonel subsided against a wall, and began to express himself softly
      in Hindustani.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Poor dears!" said Sylvia. "How stuffy they must be feeling!"
    </p>
    <p>
      She ran to the house, and returned with a basin of water.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Poor dears!" she said again. "You'll soon have something to drink."
    </p>
    <p>
      She knelt down by the nearest hamper, and cut the cord that fastened it. A
      pug jumped out like a jack-in-the-box, and rushed to the water. Sylvia
      continued her work of mercy, and by the time the colonel had recovered
      sufficiently to be able to express his views in English, eighteen more
      pugs had joined their companion.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Get out, you brute!" shouted the colonel, as a dog insinuated itself
      between his legs. "Sylvia, put them back again this minute! You had no
      business to let them out. Put them back!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "But I can't, papa. I can't catch them."
    </p>
    <p>
      She looked helplessly from him to the seething mass of dogs, and back
      again.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Where's my gun?" began the colonel.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Papa, don't! You couldn't be so cruel! They aren't doing any harm, poor
      things!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "If I knew who sent them——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Perhaps there's something to show. Yes; here's a visiting-card in this
      hamper."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Whose is it?" bellowed the colonel through the din.
    </p>
    <p>
      "J. D'Arcy Henderson, The Firs," read Sylvia, at the top of her voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Young blackguard!" bawled the colonel.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I expect there's one in each of the hampers. Yes; here's another. W. K.
      Ross, The Elms."
    </p>
    <p>
      The colonel came across, and began to examine the hampers with his own
      hand. Each hamper contained a visiting-card, and each card bore the name
      of a neighbour. The colonel returned to the breakfast-room, and laid the
      nineteen cards out in a row on the table.
    </p>
    <p>
      "H'm!" he said, at last. "Mr. Reginald Dallas does not seem to be
      represented."
    </p>
    <p>
      Sylvia said nothing.
    </p>
    <p>
      "No; he seems not to be represented. I did not give him credit for so much
      sense." Then he dropped the subject, and breakfast proceeded in silence.
    </p>
    <p>
      A young gentleman met the colonel on his walk that morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Morning, colonel!" said he.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Good-morning!" said the colonel grimly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Er—colonel, I—er—suppose Miss Reynolds got that dog all
      right?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "To which dog do you refer?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "It was a pug, you know. It ought to have arrived by this time."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes. I am inclined to think it has. Had it any special characteristics?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "No, I don't think so. Just an ordinary pug."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, young man, if you will go to my coachhouse, you will find nineteen
      ordinary pugs; and if you would kindly select your beast, and shoot it, I
      should be much obliged."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Nineteen?" said the other, in astonishment. "Why, are you setting up as a
      dog-fancier in your old age, colonel?"
    </p>
    <p>
      This was too much for the colonel. He exploded.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Old age! Confound your impudence! Dog-fancier! No, sir! I have not become
      a dog-fancier in what you are pleased to call my old age! But while there
      is no law to prevent a lot of dashed young puppies like yourself, sir—like
      yourself—sending your confounded pug-dogs to my daughter, who ought
      to have known better than to have let them out of their dashed hampers, I
      have no defence.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Dog-fancier! Gad! Unless those dogs are removed by this time to-morrow,
      sir, they will go straight to the Battersea Home, where I devoutly trust
      they will poison them. Here are the cards of the other gentlemen who were
      kind enough to think that I might wish to set up for a dog-fancier in my
      old age. Perhaps you will kindly return them to their owners, and tell
      them what I have just said." And he strode off, leaving the young man in a
      species of trance.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Sylvia!" said the colonel, on arriving home.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, papa."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Do you still want to marry that Dallas fellow? Now, for Heaven's sake,
      don't start crying! Goodness knows I've been worried enough this morning
      without that. Please answer a plain question in a fairly sane manner. Do
      you, or do you not?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Of course I do, papa."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Then you may. He's the furthest from being a fool of any of the young
      puppies who live about here, and he knows one end of a gun from the other.
      I'll write to him now."
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Dear Dallas" (wrote the colonel),—"I find, on consideration,
    that you are the only sensible person in the neighbourhood. I hope
    you will come to lunch to-day. And if you still want to marry
    my daughter, you may."
</pre>
    <p>
      To which Dallas replied by return of messenger:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Thanks for both invitations. I will."
</pre>
    <p>
      An hour later he arrived in person, and the course of true love pulled
      itself together, and began to run smooth again.
    </p>
    <p>
      <br /><br />
    </p>
<!--se:split-->
    <p>
      <a name="link2H_4_0020" id="link2H_4_0020"> </a>
    </p>
    <div style="height: 4em;">
      <br /><br /><br /><br />
    </div>
    <h2>
      TOM, DICK, AND HARRY
    </h2>
    <p>
      This story will interest and amuse all cricketers, and while from the male
      point of view it may serve as a good illustration of the fickleness of
      woman and the impossibility of forecasting what course she will take, the
      fair sex will find in it an equally shining proof of the colossal vanity
      of man.
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's like this."
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom Ellison sat down on the bed, and paused.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Whack it out," said Dick Henley encouragingly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "We're all friends here, and the password's 'Portland.' What's the
      matter?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I hate talking to a man when he's shaving. I don't want to have you
      cutting your head off."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Don't worry about me. This is a safety razor. And, anyhow, what's the
      excitement? Going to make my flesh creep?"
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom Ellison kicked uncomfortably at the chair he was trying to balance on
      one leg.
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's so hard to explain."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Have a dash at it."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, look here, Dick, we've always been pals. What?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Of course we have."
    </p>
    <p>
      "We went to the Empire last Boatrace night together——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "And got chucked out simultaneously."
    </p>
    <p>
      "In fact, we've always been pals. What?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Of course we have."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Then, whenever there was a rag on, and a bonner in the quad, you always
      knew you could help yourself to my chairs."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You had the run of mine."
    </p>
    <p>
      "We've shared each other's baccy."
    </p>
    <p>
      "And whisky."
    </p>
    <p>
      "In short, we've always been pals. What?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Of course we have."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Then," said Tom Ellison, "what are you trying to cut me out for?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Cut you out?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "You know what I mean. What do you think I came here for? To play cricket?
      Rot! I'd much rather have gone on tour with the Authentics. I came here to
      propose to Dolly Burn."
    </p>
    <p>
      Dick Henley frowned.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I wish you'd speak of her as Miss Burn," he said austerely.
    </p>
    <p>
      "There you are, you see," said Tom with sombre triumph; "you oughtn't to
      have noticed a thing like that. It oughtn't to matter to you what I call
      her. I always think of her as Dolly."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You've no right to."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall have soon."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'll bet you won't."
    </p>
    <p>
      "How much?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Ten to one in anything."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Done," said Tom. "I mean," he added hastily, "don't be a fool. There are
      some things one can't bet on. As you ought to have known," he said primly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Now, look here," said Dick, "this thing has got to be settled. You say
      I'm trying to cut you out. I like that! We may fairly describe that as
      rich. As if my love were the same sort of passing fancy that yours is. You
      know you fall in love, as you call it, with every girl you meet."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I don't."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Very well. If the subject is painful we won't discuss it. Still, how
      about that girl you used to rave about last summer? Ethel Something?"
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom blushed.
    </p>
    <p>
      "A mere platonic friendship. We both collected autographs. And, if it
      comes to that, how about Dora Thingummy? You had enough to say about her
      last winter."
    </p>
    <p>
      Dick reddened.
    </p>
    <p>
      "We were on good terms. Nothing more. She always sliced with her brassy.
      So did I. It formed a sort of bond."
    </p>
    <p>
      There was a pause.
    </p>
    <p>
      "After all," resumed Dick, "I don't see the point of all this. Why rake up
      the past? You aren't writing my life."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You started raking."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, to drop that, what do you propose to do about this? You're a good
      chap, Tom, when you aren't making an ass of yourself; but I'm hanged if
      I'm going to have you interfering between me and Dolly."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Miss Burn."
    </p>
    <p>
      Another pause.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Look here," said Dick. "Cards on the table. I've loved her since last
      Commem."
    </p>
    <p>
      "So have I."
    </p>
    <p>
      "We went up the Char together in a Canader. Alone."
    </p>
    <p>
      "She also did the trip with me. No chaperone."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Twice with me."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Same here."
    </p>
    <p>
      "She gave me a couple of dances at the Oriel ball."
    </p>
    <p>
      "So she did me. She said my dancing was so much better than the average
      young man's."
    </p>
    <p>
      "She told me I must have had a great deal of practice at waltzing."
    </p>
    <p>
      "In the matter of photographs," said Tom, "she gave me one."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Me, too."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Do you mean 'also' or 'a brace'?" inquired Tom anxiously.
    </p>
    <p>
      "'Also,'" confessed Dick with reluctance.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Signed?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Rather!"
    </p>
    <p>
      A third pause.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I tell you what it is," said Tom; "we must agree on something, or we
      shall both get left. All we're doing now is to confuse the poor girl. She
      evidently likes us both the same. What I mean is, we're both so alike that
      she can't possibly make a choice unless one of us chucks it. You don't
      feel like chucking it, Dick. What?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "You needn't be more of an idiot than you can help."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I only asked. So we are evidently both determined to stick to it. We
      shall have to toss, then, to settle which is to back out and give the
      other man a show."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Toss!" shouted Dick. "For Dolly! Never!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "But we must do something. You won't back out like a sensible man. We must
      settle it somehow."
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's all right," said Dick. "I've got it. We both seem to have come here
      and let ourselves in for this rotten little village match, on a wicket
      which will probably be all holes and hillocks, simply for Dolly's sake. So
      it's only right that we should let the match decide this thing for us. It
      won't be so cold-blooded as tossing. See?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "You mean——?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Whichever of us makes the bigger score today wins. The loser has to keep
      absolutely off the grass. Not so much as a look or a remark about the
      weather. Then, of course, after the winner has had his innings, if he
      hasn't brought the thing off, and she has chucked him, the loser can have
      a look in. But not a moment before. Understand?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "All right."
    </p>
    <p>
      "It'll give an interest to a rotten match," said Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom rose to a point of order.
    </p>
    <p>
      "There's one objection. You, being a stodgy sort of bat, and having a
      habit of sitting on the splice, always get put in first. I'm a hitter, so
      they generally shove me in about fourth wicket. In this sort of match the
      man who goes in fourth wicket is likely to be not out half a dozen at the
      end of the innings. Nobody stays in more than three balls. Whereas you,
      going in first, will have time for a decent knock before the rot starts.
      Follow?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I don't want to take any advantage of you," said Dick condescendingly. "I
      shan't need it. We'll see Drew after breakfast and get him to put us both
      in first."
    </p>
    <p>
      The Rev. Henry Drew, cricketing curate, was the captain of the side.
    </p>
    <p>
      Consulted on the matter after breakfast, the Rev. Henry looked grave. He
      was taking this match very seriously, and held decided views on the
      subject of managing his team.
    </p>
    <p>
      "The point is, my dear Ellison," he said, "that I want the bowling broken
      a bit before you go in. Then your free, aggressive style would have a
      better chance. I was thinking of putting you in fourth wicket. Would not
      that suit you?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I thought so. Tell him, Dick."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Look here, Drew," said Dick; "you'll regard what I'm going to say as said
      under seal of the confessional and that sort of thing, won't you?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall, of course, respect any confidence you impart to me, my dear
      Henley. What is this dreadful secret?"
    </p>
    <p>
      Dick explained.
    </p>
    <p>
      "So you see," he concluded, "it's absolutely necessary that we should
      start fair."
    </p>
    <p>
      The Rev. Henry looked as disturbed as if he had suddenly detected symptoms
      of Pelagianism in a member of his Sunday-school class.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Is such a contest quite——? Is it not a little—um?" he
      said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Not at all," said Dick, hastening to justify himself and friend. "We must
      settle the thing somehow, and neither of us will back out. If we didn't do
      this we should have to toss."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Heaven forbid!" said the curate, shocked.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, is it a deal? Will you put us in first?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Very well."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Thanks," said Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Good of you," said Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Don't mention it," said Harry.
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      There are two sorts of country cricket. There is the variety you get at a
      country-house, where the wicket is prepared with a care as meticulous as
      that in fashion on any county ground; where red marl and such-like aids to
      smoothness have been injected into the turf all through the winter; and
      where the out-fielding is good and the boundaries spacious. And there is
      the village match, where cows are apt to stroll on to the pitch before the
      innings and cover-point stands up to his neck in a furze-bush.
    </p>
    <p>
      The game which was to decide the fate of Tom and Dick belonged to the
      latter variety. A pitch had been mown in the middle of a meadow (kindly
      lent by Farmer Rollitt on condition that he should be allowed to umpire,
      and his eldest son Ted put on to bowl first). The team consisted of
      certain horny-handed sons of toil, with terrific golf-shots in the
      direction of square-leg, and the enemy's ranks were composed of the same
      material. Tom and Dick, in ordinary circumstances, would have gone in to
      bat in such a match with a feeling of lofty disdain, as befitting experts
      from the civilised world, come to teach the rustic mind what was what.
    </p>
    <p>
      But on the present occasion the thought of all that depended on their bats
      induced a state of nerves which would have done credit to a test match.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Would you mind taking first b-b-ball, old man?" said Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "All r-right," said Dick. He had been on the point of making the request
      himself, but it would not do to let Tom see that he was nervous.
    </p>
    <p>
      He took guard from Farmer Rollitt, and settled himself into position to
      face the first delivery.
    </p>
    <p>
      Whether it is due to the pure air of the country or to daily manual toil
      is not known, but the fact remains that bowlers in village matches,
      whatever their other shortcomings, seldom fall short in the matter of
      speed. The present trundler, having swung his arm round like a flail,
      bounded to the crease and sent down a ball which hummed in the air. It
      pitched halfway between the wickets in a slight hollow caused by the foot
      of a cow and shot. Dick reached blindly forward, and the next moment his
      off-stump was out of the ground.
    </p>
    <p>
      A howl of approval went up from the supporters of the enemy, lying under
      the trees.
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom sat down, limp with joy. Dick out for a duck! What incredible good
      fortune! He began to frame in his mind epigrammatic sentences for use in
      the scene which would so shortly take place between Miss Dolly Burn and
      himself. The next man came in and played flukily but successfully through
      the rest of the over. "Just a single," said Tom to himself as he faced the
      bowler at the other end. "Just one solitary single. Miss Burn—may I
      call you Dolly? Do you remember that moonlight night? On the Char? In my
      Canadian canoe? We two?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "'S THAT?" shrieked bowler and wicket-keeper as one man.
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom looked blankly at them. He had not gone within a mile and a half of
      the ball, he was certain. And yet—there was the umpire with his hand
      raised, as if he were the Pope bestowing a blessing.
    </p>
    <p>
      He walked quickly back to the trees, flung off his pads, and began to
      smoke furiously.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well?" said a voice.
    </p>
    <p>
      Dick was standing before him, grinning like a gargoyle.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Of all the absolutely delirious decisions——" began Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, yes," said Dick rudely, "I know all about that. Why, I could hear the
      click from where I was sitting. The point is, what's to be done now? We
      shall have to settle it on the second innings."
    </p>
    <p>
      "If there is one."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, there'll be a second innings all right. There's another man out. On a
      wicket like this we shall all be out in an hour, and we'll have the other
      side out in another hour, and then we'll start again on this business. I
      shall play a big game next innings. It was only that infernal ball
      shooting that did me."
    </p>
    <p>
      "And I," said Tom; "if the umpire has got over his fit of delirium
      tremens, or been removed to Colney Hatch, shall almost certainly make a
      century."
    </p>
    <p>
      It was four o'clock by the time Tom and Dick went to the wickets for the
      second time. Their side had been headed by their opponents by a dozen on
      the first innings—68 to 56.
    </p>
    <p>
      A splendid spirit of confidence animated the two batsmen. The umpire who
      had effected Tom's downfall in the first innings had since received a hard
      drive in the small of the back as he turned coyly away to avoid the ball,
      and was now being massaged by strong men in the taproom of the village
      inn. It was the sort of occurrence, said Tom, which proved once and for
      all the existence of an all-seeing, benevolent Providence.
    </p>
    <p>
      As for Dick, he had smoothed out a few of the more important
      mountain-ranges which marred the smoothness of the wicket, and was feeling
      that all was right with the world.
    </p>
    <p>
      The pair started well. The demon bowler of the enemy, having been fjted
      considerably under the trees by enthusiastic admirers during the innings
      of his side, was a little incoherent in his deliveries. Four full-pitches
      did he send down to Dick in his first over, and Dick had placed 16 to his
      credit before Tom, who had had to look on anxiously, had opened his
      account. Dick was a slow scorer as a rule, but he knew a full-pitch to leg
      when he saw one.
    </p>
    <p>
      From his place at the other crease Tom could see Miss Burn and her mother
      sitting under the trees, watching the game.
    </p>
    <p>
      The sight nerved him. By the time he had played through his first over he
      had reduced Dick's lead by half. An oyster would have hit out in such
      circumstances, and Tom was always an aggressive batsman. By the end of the
      third over the scores were level. Each had made 20.
    </p>
    <p>
      Enthusiasm ran high amongst the spectators, or such of them as were
      natives of the village. Such a stand for the first wicket had not been
      seen in all the matches ever played in the neighbourhood. When Tom, with a
      nice straight drive (which should have been a 4, but was stopped by a cow
      and turned into a single), brought up the century, small boys burst
      buttons and octogenarians wept like babes.
    </p>
    <p>
      The bowling was collared. The demon had long since retired grumbling to
      the deep field. Weird trundlers, with actions like nothing else on earth,
      had been tried, had fired their ringing shot, and passed. One individual
      had gone on with lobs, to the acute delight of everybody except the
      fieldsmen who had to retrieve the balls and the above-mentioned cow. And
      still Tom and Dick stayed in and smote, while in the west the sun slowly
      sank.
    </p>
    <p>
      The Rev. Henry looked anxious. It was magnificent, but it must not be
      overdone. A little more and they would not have time to get the foe out
      for the second time. In which case the latter would win on the first
      innings. And this thought was as gall to him.
    </p>
    <p>
      He walked out and addressed the rival captain.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I think," said he, "we will close our innings."
    </p>
    <p>
      Tom and Dick made two bee-lines for the scorer and waited palpitatingly
      for the verdict.
    </p>
    <p>
      "What's my score?" panted Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Fifty-fower, sur."
    </p>
    <p>
      "And mine?" gasped Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Fifty-fower, too, sur."
    </p>
    <hr />
    <p>
      "You see, my dear fellows," said the Rev. Henry when they had finished—and
      his voice was like unto oil that is poured into a wound—"we had to
      win this match, and if you had gone on batting we should not have had time
      to get them out. As it is, we shall have to hurry."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But, hang it——" said Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "But, look here——" said Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "What on earth are we to do?" said Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "We're in precisely the same hole as we were before," said Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "We don't know how to manage it."
    </p>
    <p>
      "We're absolutely bunkered."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Our competition, you see."
    </p>
    <p>
      "About Miss Burn, don't you know."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Which is to propose first?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "We can't settle it."
    </p>
    <p>
      The Rev. Henry smiled a faint, saintly smile and raised a protesting hand.
    </p>
    <p>
      "My advice," he said, "is that both of you should refrain from proposing."
    </p>
    <p>
      "What?" said Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "<i>Wha-at</i>?" said Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "You see," purred the Rev. Henry, "you are both very young fellows.
      Probably you do not know your own minds. You take these things too seri——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Now, look here," said Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "None of that rot," said Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall propose tonight."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall propose this evening."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shouldn't," said the Rev. Henry. "The fact is——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I didn't tell you before, for fear it should put you off your game; but
      Miss Burn is engaged already, and has been for three days."
    </p>
    <p>
      The two rivals started.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Engaged!" cried Tom.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Whom to?" hissed Dick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Me," murmured Harry.
    </p>




<!--se:split-->
    
    <h2>
      DISENTANGLING OLD DUGGIE
    </h2>
    <p>
      Doesn't some poet or philosopher fellow say that it's when our intentions
      are best that we always make the worst breaks? I can't put my hand on the
      passage, but you'll find it in Shakespeare or somewhere, I'm pretty
      certain.
    </p>
    <p>
      At any rate, it's always that way with me. And the affair of Douglas Craye
      is a case in point.
    </p>
    <p>
      I had dined with Duggie (a dear old pal of mine) one night at his club,
      and as he was seeing me out he said: "Reggie, old top"—my name's
      Reggie Pepper—"Reggie, old top, I'm rather worried."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Are you, Duggie, old pal?" I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes, Reggie, old fellow," he said, "I am. It's like this. The Booles have
      asked me down to their place for the week-end, and I don't know whether to
      go or not. You see, they have early breakfast, and besides that there's a
      frightful risk of music after dinner. On the other hand, young Roderick
      Boole thinks he can play piquet."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I should go," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "But I'm not sure Roderick's going to be there this time."
    </p>
    <p>
      It was a problem, and I didn't wonder poor old Dug had looked pale and
      tired at dinner.
    </p>
    <p>
      Then I had the idea which really started all the trouble.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Why don't you consult a palmist?" I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "That sounds a good idea," said Duggie.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Go and see Dorothea in Forty-second Street. She's a wonder. She'll settle
      it for you in a second. She'll see from your lines that you are thinking
      of making a journey, and she'll either tell you to get a move on, which
      will mean that Roderick will be there, or else to keep away because she
      sees disaster."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You seem to be next to the game all right."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I've been to a good many of them. You'll like Dorothea."
    </p>
    <p>
      "What did you say her name was—Dorothea? What do I do? Do I just
      walk in? Shan't I feel a fearful chump? How much do I give her?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Five bucks. You'd better write and make a date."
    </p>
    <p>
      "All right," said Duggie. "But I know I shall look a frightful fool."
    </p>
    <p>
      About a week later I ran into him between the acts at the Knickerbocker.
      The old boy was beaming.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reggie," he said, "you did me the best turn anyone's ever done me,
      sending me to Mrs. Darrell."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mrs. Darrell?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "You know. Dorothea. Her real name's Darrell. She's a widow. Her husband
      was in some regiment, and left her without a penny. It's a frightfully
      pathetic story. Haven't time to tell you now. My boy, she's a marvel. She
      had hardly looked at my hand, when she said: 'You will prosper in any
      venture you undertake.' And next day, by George, I went down to the
      Booles' and separated young Roderick from seventy dollars. She's a
      wonderful woman. Did you ever see just that shade of hair?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I didn't notice her hair."
    </p>
    <p>
      He gaped at me in a sort of petrified astonishment.
    </p>
    <p>
      "You—didn't—notice—her—hair!" he gasped.
    </p>
    <p>
      I can't fix the dates exactly, but it must have been about three weeks
      after this that I got a telegram:
    </p>
<pre xml:space="preserve">
    "Call Madison Avenue immediately—Florence Craye."
</pre>
    <p>
      She needn't have signed her name. I should have known who it was from by
      the wording. Ever since I was a kid, Duggie's sister Florence has
      oppressed me to the most fearful extent. Not that I'm the only one. Her
      brothers live in terror of her, I know. Especially Edwin. He's never been
      able to get away from her and it's absolutely broken his spirit. He's a
      mild, hopeless sort of chump who spends all his time at home—they
      live near Philadelphia—and has never been known to come to New York.
      He's writing a history of the family, or something, I believe.
    </p>
    <p>
      You see, events have conspired, so to speak, to let Florence do pretty
      much as she likes with them. Originally there was old man Craye, Duggie's
      father, who made a fortune out of the Soup Trust; Duggie's elder brother
      Edwin; Florence; and Duggie. Mrs. Craye has been dead some years. Then
      came the smash. It happened through the old man. Most people, if you ask
      them, will tell you that he ought to be in Bloomingdale; and I'm not sure
      they're not right. At any rate, one morning he came down to breakfast,
      lifted the first cover on the sideboard, said in a sort of despairing way,
      "Eggs! Eggs! Eggs! Curse all eggs!" and walked out of the room. Nobody
      thought much of it till about an hour afterward, when they found that he
      had packed a grip, left the house, and caught the train to New York. Next
      day they got a letter from him, saying that he was off to Europe, never to
      return, and that all communications were to be addressed to his lawyers.
      And from that day on none of them had seen him. He wrote occasionally,
      generally from Paris; and that was all.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, directly news of this got about, down swooped a series of aunts to
      grab the helm. They didn't stay long. Florence had them out, one after the
      other, in no time. If any lingering doubt remained in their minds, don't
      you know, as to who was going to be boss at home, it wasn't her fault.
      Since then she has run the show.
    </p>
    <p>
      I went to Madison Avenue. It was one of the aunts' houses. There was no
      sign of the aunt when I called—she had probably climbed a tree and
      pulled it up after her—but Florence was there.
    </p>
    <p>
      She is a tall woman with what, I believe, is called "a presence." Her eyes
      are bright and black, and have a way of getting right inside you, don't
      you know, and running up and down your spine. She has a deep voice. She is
      about ten years older than Duggie's brother Edwin, who is six years older
      than Duggie.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Good afternoon," she said. "Sit down."
    </p>
    <p>
      I poured myself into a chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reginald," she said, "what is this I hear about Douglas?"
    </p>
    <p>
      I said I didn't know.
    </p>
    <p>
      "He says that you introduced him."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Eh?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "To this woman—this Mrs. Darrell."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mrs. Darrell?"
    </p>
    <p>
      My memory's pretty rocky, and the name conveyed nothing to me.
    </p>
    <p>
      She pulled out a letter.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes," she said, "Mrs. Dorothy Darrell."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Great Scott! Dorothea!"
    </p>
    <p>
      Her eyes resumed their spine drill.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Who is she?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Only a palmist."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Only a palmist!" Her voice absolutely boomed. "Well, my brother Douglas
      is engaged to be married to her."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Many happy returns of the day," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      I don't know why I said it. It wasn't what I meant to say. I'm not sure I
      meant to say anything.
    </p>
    <p>
      She glared at me. By this time I was pure jelly. I simply flowed about the
      chair.
    </p>
    <p>
      "You are facetious, Reginald," she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "No, no, no," I shouted. "It slipped out. I wouldn't be facetious for
      worlds."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I am glad. It is no laughing matter. Have you any suggestions?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Suggestions?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "You don't imagine it can be allowed to go on? The engagement must be
      broken, of course. But how?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Why don't you tell him he mustn't?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall naturally express my strong disapproval, but it may not be
      effective. When out of the reach of my personal influence, my wretched
      brother is self-willed to a degree."
    </p>
    <p>
      I saw what she meant. Good old Duggie wasn't going to have those eyes
      patrolling his spine if he knew it. He meant to keep away and conduct this
      business by letter. There was going to be no personal interview with
      sister, if he had to dodge about America like a snipe.
    </p>
    <p>
      We sat for a long time without speaking. Then I became rather subtle. I
      had a brain-wave and saw my way to making things right for Dug and at the
      same time squaring myself with Florence. After all, I thought, the old boy
      couldn't keep away from home for the rest of his life. He would have to go
      there sooner or later. And my scheme made it pleasant and easy for him.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'll tell you what I should do if I were you," I said. "I'm not sure I
      didn't read some book or see some play somewhere or other where they tried
      it on, and it worked all right. Fellow got engaged to a girl, and the
      family didn't like it, but, instead of kicking, they pretended to be
      tickled to pieces, and had the fellow and the girl down to visit them. And
      then, after the fellow had seen the girl with the home circle as a
      background, don't you know, he came to the conclusion that it wouldn't do,
      and broke off the engagement."
    </p>
    <p>
      It seemed to strike her.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I hardly expected so sensible a suggestion from you, Reginald," she said.
      "It is a very good plan. It shows that you really have a definite
      substratum of intelligence; and it is all the more deplorable that you
      should idle your way through the world as you do, when you might be
      performing some really useful work."
    </p>
    <p>
      That was Florence all over. Even when she patted you on the head, she had
      to do it with her knuckles.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I will invite them down next week," she went on. "You had better come,
      too."
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's awfully kind of you, but the fact is——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Next Wednesday. Take the three-forty-seven."
    </p>
    <p>
      I met Duggie next day. He was looking happy, but puzzled, like a man who
      has found a dime on the street and is wondering if there's a string tied
      to it. I congratulated him on his engagement.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reggie," he said, "a queer thing has happened. I feel as if I'd trodden
      on the last step when it wasn't there. I've just had a letter from my
      sister Florence asking me to bring Dorothy home on Wednesday. Florence
      doesn't seem to object to the idea of the engagement at all; and I'd
      expected that I'd have to call out the police reserves when she heard of
      it. I believe there's a catch somewhere."
    </p>
    <p>
      I tapped him on the breastbone.
    </p>
    <p>
      "There is, Dug," I said, "and I'll tell you what it is. I saw her
      yesterday, and I can put you next to the game. She thinks that if you see
      Mrs. Darrell mingling with the home circle, you'll see flaws in her which
      you don't see when you don't see her mingling with the home circle, don't
      you see? Do you see now?"
    </p>
    <p>
      He laughed—heroically, don't you know.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'm afraid she'll be disappointed. Love like mine is not dependent on
      environment."
    </p>
    <p>
      Which wasn't bad, I thought, if it was his own.
    </p>
    <p>
      I said good-by to him, and toddled along rather pleased with myself. It
      seemed to me that I had handled his affairs in a pretty masterly manner
      for a chap who's supposed to be one of the biggest chumps in New York.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, of course, the thing was an absolute fliver, as I ought to have
      guessed it would be. Whatever could have induced me to think that a fellow
      like poor old Dug stood a dog's chance against a determined female like
      his sister Florence, I can't imagine. It was like expecting a rabbit to
      put up a show with a python. From the very start there was only one
      possible end to the thing. To a woman like Florence, who had trained
      herself as tough as whalebone by years of scrapping with her father and
      occasional by-battles with aunts, it was as easy as killing rats with a
      stick.
    </p>
    <p>
      I was sorry for Mrs. Darrell. She was a really good sort and, as a matter
      of fact, just the kind of wife who would have done old Duggie a bit of
      good. And on her own ground I shouldn't wonder if she might not have made
      a fight for it. But now she hadn't a chance. Poor old Duggie was just like
      so much putty in Florence's hands when he couldn't get away from her. You
      could see the sawdust trickling out of Love's Young Dream in a steady
      flow.
    </p>
    <p>
      I took Mrs. Darrell for a walk one afternoon, to see if I couldn't cheer
      her up a bit, but it wasn't much good. She hardly spoke a word till we
      were on our way home. Then she said with a sort of jerk: "I'm going back
      to New York tomorrow, Mr. Pepper."
    </p>
    <p>
      I suppose I ought to have pretended to be surprised, but I couldn't work
      it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'm afraid you've had a bad time," I said. "I'm very sorry."
    </p>
    <p>
      She laughed.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Thank you," she said. "It's nice of you to be sympathetic instead of
      tactful. You're rather a dear, Mr. Pepper."
    </p>
    <p>
      I hadn't any remarks to make. I whacked at a nettle with my stick.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall break off my engagement after dinner, so that Douglas can have a
      good night's rest. I'm afraid he has been brooding on the future a good
      deal. It will be a great relief to him."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, no," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, yes. I know exactly how he feels. He thought he could carry me off,
      but he finds he overestimated his powers. He has remembered that he is a
      Craye. I imagine that the fact has been pointed out to him."
    </p>
    <p>
      "If you ask my opinion," I said—I was feeling pretty sore about it—"that
      woman Florence is an absolute cat."
    </p>
    <p>
      "My dear Mr. Pepper, I wouldn't have dreamed of asking your opinion on
      such a delicate subject. But I'm glad to have it. Thank you very much. Do
      I strike you as a vindictive woman, Mr. Pepper?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I don't think you do," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "By nature I don't think I am. But I'm feeling a little vindictive just at
      present."
    </p>
    <p>
      She stopped suddenly.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I don't know why I'm boring you like this, Mr. Pepper," she said. "For
      goodness' sake let's be cheerful. Say something bright."
    </p>
    <p>
      I was going to take a whirl at it, but she started in to talk, and talked
      all the rest of the way. She seemed to have cheered up a whole lot.
    </p>
    <p>
      She left next day. I gather she fired Duggie as per schedule, for the old
      boy looked distinctly brighter, and Florence wore an off-duty expression
      and was quite decently civil. Mrs. Darrell bore up all right. She avoided
      Duggie, of course, and put in most of the time talking to Edwin. He
      evidently appreciated it, for I had never seen him look so nearly happy
      before.
    </p>
    <p>
      I went back to New York directly afterward, and I hadn't been there much
      more than a week when a most remarkably queer thing happened. Turning in
      at Hammerstein's for half an hour one evening, whom should I meet but
      brother Edwin, quite fairly festive, with a fat cigar in his mouth.
      "Hello, Reggie," he said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "What are you doing here?" I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I had to come up to New York to look up a life of Hilary de Craye at the
      library. I believe Mister Man was a sort of ancestor."
    </p>
    <p>
      "This isn't the library."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I was beginning to guess as much. The difference is subtle but well
      marked."
    </p>
    <p>
      It struck me that there was another difference that was subtle but well
      marked, and that was the difference between the Edwin I'd left messing
      about over his family history a week before and the jovial rounder who was
      blowing smoke in my face now.
    </p>
    <p>
      "As a matter of fact," he said, "the library would be all the better for a
      little of this sort of thing. It's too conservative. That's what's the
      trouble with the library. What's the matter with having a cross-talk team
      and a few performing dogs there? It would brighten the place up and
      attract custom. Reggie, you're looking fatigued. I've heard there's a
      place somewhere in this city, if you can only find it, expressly designed
      for supplying first-aid to the fatigued. Let's go and look for it."
    </p>
    <p>
      I'm not given to thinking much as a rule, but I couldn't help pondering
      over this meeting with Edwin. It's hard to make you see the remarkableness
      of the whole thing, for, of course, if you look at it, in one way, there's
      nothing so record-breaking in smoking a cigar and drinking a highball. But
      then you have never seen Edwin. There are degrees in everything, don't you
      know. For Edwin to behave as he did with me that night was simply nothing
      more nor less than a frightful outburst, and it disturbed me. Not that I
      cared what Edwin did, as a rule, but I couldn't help feeling a sort of
      what-d'you-call-it—a presentiment, that somehow, in some way I
      didn't understand, I was mixed up in it, or was soon going to be. I think
      the whole fearful family had got on my nerves to such an extent that the
      mere sight of any of them made me jumpy.
    </p>
    <p>
      And, by George, I was perfectly right, don't you know. In a day or two
      along came the usual telegram from Florence, telling me to come to Madison
      Avenue.
    </p>
    <p>
      The mere idea of Madison Avenue was beginning to give me that tired
      feeling, and I made up my mind I wouldn't go near the place. But of course
      I did. When it came to the point, I simply hadn't the common manly courage
      to keep away.
    </p>
    <p>
      Florence was there as before.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reginald," she said, "I think I shall go raving mad."
    </p>
    <p>
      This struck me as a mighty happy solution of everybody's troubles, but I
      felt it was too good to be true.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Over a week ago," she went on, "my brother Edwin came up to New York to
      consult a book at the library. I anticipated that this would occupy
      perhaps an afternoon, and was expecting him back by an early train next
      day. He did not arrive. He sent an incoherent telegram. But even then I
      suspected nothing." She paused. "Yesterday morning," she said, "I had a
      letter from my aunt Augusta."
    </p>
    <p>
      She paused again. She seemed to think I ought to be impressed.
    </p>
    <p>
      Her eyes tied a bowknot in my spine.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Let me read you her letter. No, I will tell you its contents. Aunt
      Augusta had seen Edwin lunching at the Waldorf with a creature."
    </p>
    <p>
      "A what?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "My aunt described her. Her hair was of a curious dull bronze tint."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Your aunt's?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "The woman's. It was then that I began to suspect. How many women with
      dull bronze hair does Edwin know?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Great Scott! Why ask me?"
    </p>
    <p>
      I had got used to being treated as a sort of "Hey, Bill!" by Florence, but
      I was darned if I was going to be expected to be an encyclopedia as well.
    </p>
    <p>
      "One," she said. "That appalling Darrell woman."
    </p>
    <p>
      She drew a deep breath.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yesterday evening," she said, "I saw them together in a taximeter cab.
      They were obviously on their way to some theatre."
    </p>
    <p>
      She fixed me with her eye.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reginald," she said, "you must go and see her the first thing to-morrow."
    </p>
    <p>
      "What!" I cried. "Me? Why? Why me?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Because you are responsible for the whole affair. You introduced Douglas
      to her. You suggested that he should bring her home. Go to her to-morrow
      and ascertain her intentions."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "The very first thing."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But wouldn't it be better to have a talk with Edwin?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I have made every endeavour to see Edwin, but he deliberately avoids me.
      His answers to my telegrams are willfully evasive."
    </p>
    <p>
      There was no doubt that Edwin had effected a thorough bolt. He was having
      quite a pleasant little vacation: Two Weeks in Sunny New York. And from
      what I'd seen of him, he seemed to be thriving on it. I didn't wonder
      Florence had got rather anxious. She'd have been more anxious if she had
      seen him when I did. He'd got a sort of "New-York-is-so-bracing" look
      about him, which meant a whole heap of trouble before he trotted back to
      the fold.
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, I started off to interview Mrs. Darrell, and, believe me, I didn't
      like the prospect. I think they ought to train A. D. T. messengers to do
      this sort of thing. I found her alone. The rush hour of clients hadn't
      begun.
    </p>
    <p>
      "How do you do, Mr. Pepper?" she said. "How nice of you to call."
    </p>
    <p>
      Very friendly, and all that. It made the situation darned difficult for a
      fellow, if you see what I mean.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Say," I said. "What about it, don't you know?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I certainly don't," she said. "What ought I to know about what?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, about Edwin—Edwin Craye," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      She smiled.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh! So you're an ambassador, Mr. Pepper?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, as a matter of fact, I did come to see if I could find out how
      things were running. What's going to happen?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Are you consulting me professionally? If so, you must show me your hand.
      Or perhaps you would rather I showed you mine?"
    </p>
    <p>
      It was subtle, but I got on to it after a bit.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes," I said, "I wish you would."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Very well. Do you remember a conversation we had, Mr. Pepper, my last
      afternoon at the Crayes'? We came to the conclusion that I was rather a
      vindictive woman."
    </p>
    <p>
      "By George! You're stringing old Edwin so as to put one over on Florence?"
    </p>
    <p>
      She flushed a little.
    </p>
    <p>
      "How very direct you are, Mr. Pepper! How do you know I'm not very fond of
      Mr. Craye? At any rate, I'm very sorry for him."
    </p>
    <p>
      "He's such a chump."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But he's improving every day. Have you seen him? You must notice the
      difference?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "There is a difference."
    </p>
    <p>
      "He only wanted taking out of himself. I think he found his sister
      Florence's influence a little oppressive sometimes."
    </p>
    <p>
      "No, but see here," I said, "are you going to marry him?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'm only a palmist. I don't pretend to be a clairvoyant. A marriage may
      be indicated in Mr. Craye's hand, but I couldn't say without looking at
      it."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But I shall have to tell her something definite, or she won't give me a
      moment's peace."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Tell her her brother is of age. Surely that's definite enough?"
    </p>
    <p>
      And I couldn't get any more out of her. I went back to Florence and
      reported. She got pretty excited about it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, if I were a man!" she said.
    </p>
    <p>
      I didn't see how that would have helped. I said so.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'd go straight to Edwin and <i>drag</i> him away. He is staying at his
      club. If I were a man I could go in and find him——"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Not if you weren't a member," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "—And tell him what I thought of his conduct. As I'm only a woman, I
      have to wait in the hall while a deceitful small boy pretends to go and
      look for him."
    </p>
    <p>
      It had never struck me before what a splendid institution a club was. Only
      a few days back I'd been thinking that the subscription to mine was a bit
      steep. But now I saw that the place earned every cent of the money.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Have you no influence with him, Reginald?"
    </p>
    <p>
      I said I didn't think I had. She called me something. Invertebrate, or
      something. I didn't catch it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Then there's only one thing to do. You must find my father and tell him
      all. Perhaps you may rouse him to a sense of what is right. You may make
      him remember that he has duties as a parent."
    </p>
    <p>
      I thought it far more likely that I should make him remember that he had a
      foot. I hadn't a very vivid recollection of old man Craye. I was quite a
      kid when he made his great speech on the Egg Question and beat it for
      Europe—but what I did recollect didn't encourage me to go and chat
      with him about the duties of a parent.
    </p>
    <p>
      As I remember him, he was a rather large man with elephantiasis of the
      temper. I distinctly recalled one occasion when I was spending a school
      vacation at his home, and he found me trying to shave old Duggie, then a
      kid of fourteen, with his razor.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shouldn't be able to find him," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "You can get his address from his lawyers."
    </p>
    <p>
      "He may be at the North Pole."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Then you must go to the North Pole."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But say——!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reginald!"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Oh, all right."
    </p>
    <p>
      I knew just what would happen. Parbury and Stevens, the lawyers, simply
      looked at me as if I had been caught snatching bags. At least, Stevens
      did. And Parbury would have done it, too, only he had been dead a good
      time. Finally, after drinking me in for about a quarter of an hour,
      Stevens said that if I desired to address a communication to his client,
      care of this office, it would be duly forwarded. Good morning. Good
      morning. Anything further? No, thanks. Good morning. Good morning.
    </p>
    <p>
      I handed the glad news on to Florence and left her to do what she liked
      about it. She went down and interviewed Stevens. I suppose he'd had
      experience of her. At any rate, he didn't argue. He yielded up the address
      in level time. Old man Craye was living in Paris, but was to arrive in New
      York that night, and would doubtless be at his club.
    </p>
    <p>
      It was the same club where Edwin was hiding from Florence. I pointed this
      out to her.
    </p>
    <p>
      "There's no need for me to butt in after all," I said. "He'll meet Edwin
      there, and they can fight it out in the smoking room. You've only to drop
      him a line explaining the facts."
    </p>
    <p>
      "I shall certainly communicate with him in writing, but, nevertheless, you
      must see him. I cannot explain everything in a letter."
    </p>
    <p>
      "But doesn't it strike you that he may think it pretty bad gall—impertinence,
      don't you know, for a comparative stranger like me to be tackling a
      delicate family affair like this?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "You will explain that you are acting for me."
    </p>
    <p>
      "It wouldn't be better if old Duggie went along instead?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I wish you to go, Reginald."
    </p>
    <p>
      Well, of course, it was all right, don't you know, but I was losing
      several pounds a day over the business. I was getting so light that I felt
      that, when the old man kicked me, I should just soar up to the ceiling
      like an air balloon.
    </p>
    <p>
      The club was one of those large clubs that look like prisons. I used to go
      there to lunch with my uncle, the one who left me his money, and I always
      hated the place. It was one of those clubs that are all red leather and
      hushed whispers.
    </p>
    <p>
      I'm bound to say, though, there wasn't much hushed whispering when I
      started my interview with old man Craye. His voice was one of my
      childhood's recollections.
    </p>
    <p>
      He was most extraordinarily like Florence. He had just the same eyes. I
      felt boneless from the start.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Good morning," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "What?" he said. "Speak up. Don't mumble."
    </p>
    <p>
      I hadn't known he was deaf. The last time we'd had any conversation—on
      the subject of razors—he had done all the talking. This seemed to me
      to put the lid on it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I only said 'Good morning,'" I shouted.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Good what? Speak up. I believe you're sucking candy. Oh, good morning? I
      remember you now. You're the boy who spoiled my razor."
    </p>
    <p>
      I didn't half like this reopening of old wounds. I hurried on.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I came about Edwin," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Who?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Edwin. Your son."
    </p>
    <p>
      "What about him?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Florence told me to see you."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Who?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Florence. Your daughter."
    </p>
    <p>
      "What about her?"
    </p>
    <p>
      All this vaudeville team business, mind you, as if we were bellowing at
      each other across the street. All round the room you could see old
      gentlemen shooting out of their chairs like rockets and dashing off at a
      gallop to write to the governing board about it. Thousands of waiters had
      appeared from nowhere, and were hanging about, dusting table legs. If ever
      a business wanted to be discussed privately, this seemed to me to be it.
      And it was just about as private as a conversation through megaphones in
      Longacre Square.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Didn't she write to you?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I got a letter from her. I tore it up. I didn't read it."
    </p>
    <p>
      Pleasant, was it not? It was not. I began to understand what a shipwrecked
      sailor must feel when he finds there's something gone wrong with the life
      belt.
    </p>
    <p>
      I thought I might as well get to the point and get it over.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Edwin's going to marry a palmist," I said.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Who the devil's Harry?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Not Harry. Marry. He's going to marry a palmist."
    </p>
    <p>
      About four hundred waiters noticed a speck of dust on an ash tray at the
      table next to ours, and swooped down on it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Edwin is going to marry a palmist?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Yes."
    </p>
    <p>
      "She must be mad. Hasn't she seen Edwin?"
    </p>
    <p>
      And just then who should stroll in but Edwin himself. I sighted him and
      gave him a hail.
    </p>
    <p>
      He curveted up to us. It was amazing the way the fellow had altered. He
      looked like a two-year-old. Flower in his button-hole and a six-inch grin,
      and all that. The old man seemed surprised, too. I didn't wonder. The
      Edwin he remembered was a pretty different kind of a fellow.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Hullo, dad," he said. "Fancy meeting you here. Have a cigarette?"
    </p>
    <p>
      He shoved out his case. Old man Craye helped himself in a sort of dazed
      way.
    </p>
    <p>
      "You <i>are</i> Edwin?" he said slowly.
    </p>
    <p>
      I began to sidle out. They didn't notice me. They had moved to a settee,
      and Edwin seemed to be telling his father a funny story.
    </p>
    <p>
      At least, he was talking and grinning, and the old man was making a noise
      like distant thunder, which I supposed was his way of chuckling. I slid
      out and left them.
    </p>
    <p>
      Some days later Duggie called on me. The old boy was looking scared.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Reggie," he said, "what do doctors call it when you think you see things
      when you don't? Hal-something. I've got it, whatever it is. It's sometimes
      caused by overwork. But it can't be that with me, because I've not been
      doing any work. You don't think my brain's going or anything like that, do
      you?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "What do you mean? What's been happening?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's like being haunted. I read a story somewhere of a fellow who kept
      thinking he saw a battleship bearing down on him. I've got it, too. Four
      times in the last three days I could have sworn I saw my father and Edwin.
      I saw them as plainly as I see you. And, of course, Edwin's at home and
      father's in Europe somewhere. Do you think it's some sort of a warning? Do
      you think I'm going to die?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "It's all right, old top," I said. "As a matter of fact, they are both in
      New York just now."
    </p>
    <p>
      "You don't mean that? Great Scot, what a relief! But, Reggie, old fox, it
      couldn't have been them really. The last time was at Louis Martin's, and
      the fellow I mistook for Edwin was dancing all by himself in the middle of
      the floor."
    </p>
    <p>
      I admitted it was pretty queer.
    </p>
    <p>
      I was away for a few days after that in the country. When I got back I
      found a pile of telegrams waiting for me. They were all from Florence, and
      they all wanted me to go to Madison Avenue. The last of the batch, which
      had arrived that morning, was so peremptory that I felt as if something
      had bitten me when I read it.
    </p>
    <p>
      For a moment I admit I hung back. Then I rallied. There are times in a
      man's life when he has got to show a flash of the old bulldog pluck, don't
      you know, if he wants to preserve his self-respect. I did then. My grip
      was still unpacked. I told my man to put it on a cab. And in about two
      ticks I was bowling off to the club. I left for England next day by the <i>Lusitania</i>.
    </p>
    <p>
      About three weeks later I fetched up at Nice. You can't walk far at Nice
      without bumping into a casino. The one I hit my first evening was the
      Casino Municipale in the Place Massina. It looked more or less of a Home
      From Home, so I strolled in.
    </p>
    <p>
      There was quite a crowd round the boule tables, and I squashed in. And
      when I'd worked through into the front rank I happened to look down the
      table, and there was Edwin, with a green Tyrolese hat hanging over one
      ear, clutching out for a lot of five-franc pieces which the croupier was
      steering toward him at the end of a rake.
    </p>
    <p>
      I was feeling lonesome, for I knew no one in the place, so I edged round
      in his direction.
    </p>
    <p>
      Halfway there I heard my name called, and there was Mrs. Darrell.
    </p>
    <p>
      I saw the whole thing in a flash. Old man Craye hadn't done a thing to
      prevent it—apart from being eccentric, he was probably glad that
      Edwin had had the sense to pick out anybody half as good a sort—and
      the marriage had taken place. And here they were on their honeymoon.
    </p>
    <p>
      I wondered what Florence was thinking of it.
    </p>
    <p>
      "Well, well, well, here we all are," I said. "I've just seen Edwin. He
      seems to be winning."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Dear boy!" she said. "He does enjoy it so. I think he gets so much more
      out of life than he used to, don't you?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Sure thing. May I wish you happiness? Why didn't you let me know and
      collect the silver fish-slice?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "Thank you so much, Mr. Pepper. I did write to you, but I suppose you
      never got the letter."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Mr. Craye didn't make any objections, then?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "On the contrary. He was more in favor of the marriage than anyone."
    </p>
    <p>
      "And I'll tell you why," I said. "I'm rather a chump, you know, but I
      observe things. I bet he was most frightfully grateful to you for taking
      Edwin in hand and making him human."
    </p>
    <p>
      "Why, you're wonderful, Mr. Pepper. That is exactly what he said himself.
      It was that that first made us friends."
    </p>
    <p>
      "And—er—Florence?"
    </p>
    <p>
      She sighed.
    </p>
    <p>
      "I'm afraid Florence has taken the thing a little badly. But I hope to win
      her over in time. I want all my children to love me."
    </p>
    <p>
      "All your what?"
    </p>
    <p>
      "I think of them as my children, you see, Mr. Pepper. I adopted them as my
      own when I married their father. Did you think I had married Edwin? What a
      funny mistake. I am very fond of Edwin, but not in that way. No, I married
      Mr. Craye. We left him at our villa tonight, as he had some letters to get
      off. You must come and see us, Mr. Pepper. I always feel that it was you
      who brought us together, you know. I wonder if you will be seeing Florence
      when you get back? Will you give her my very best love?"
    </p>
    